2.5  Draft technical standards: Oversight function 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/2017 

of XXX 

[…] 

supplementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the 

Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for the procedures and 

characteristics of the oversight function 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts 
or to measure the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 
2014/17/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/20148, and in particular Article 5(5) thereof, 

Whereas: 

(1) 

(2) 

The  list  of  structures  set  out  in  this  Regulation  is  intended  to  be  non-exhaustive,  in 
compliance  with  the  mandate  under  paragraph  5  of  Article  5  of  Regulation  (EU)  No 
2016/1011. Administrators are allowed discretion to select the oversight function most 
appropriate  for  the  benchmarks  provided  and  are  not  restricted  to  establishing  an 
oversight function based on the structures listed.  

External stakeholders acting as members of an oversight function can provide valuable 
expertise, their participation could increase the effectiveness of the oversight function. 
Conflicts  of  interest  within  the  oversight  function  may  arise  due  to  the  conflicting 
interests of these members or due to  relationships between members of the oversight 
function and their clients or other stakeholders. To mitigate such conflicts, independent 
members may be included within the oversight function – and they should be included 
in  those  overseeing  critical  benchmarks  due  to  their  importance  for  market  integrity, 
financial stability,  consumers, the real  economy  and the financing of households and 
businesses in Member States. Where independent members are not available, it may be 
appropriate  for the  administrator to  adopt  other  procedures for managing conflicts  of 
interest such as excluding members from certain discussions or removing voting rights 
of specific members. 

                                                

8 

OJ L 171, 29.6.2016, p. 1 

17 

 

 

 

(3) 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

(7) 

(8) 

(9) 

In  order  to  mitigate  conflicts  of  interest,  administrators  may  also  allow  staff  of  the 
administrator to be members of the oversight function if they are not directly involved 
in the provision of the relevant benchmarks. Such individuals could have appropriate 
objectivity to oversee the benchmark without compromising its integrity.  

An oversight function may include multiple functions, allowing for a tailored approach 
to  the  oversight  of  different  benchmarks,  different  types  of  benchmarks  or  different 
families  of  benchmarks  by  committees  with  specific,  dedicated  competencies.  An 
oversight function may also include multiple functions carrying out different tasks, as 
there may be operational reasons why persons with appropriate expertise cannot all sit 
on committee – for example, geographical challenges. Both types of oversight functions 
have a single person or committee in charge of the direction of the oversight function 
and responsible for interaction with the management body of the administrator and with 
the competent authority to facilitate the centralisation of oversight. 

For certain benchmarks, it may be possible for a natural person to act as the oversight 
function,  provided  the  amount  of  time  devoted  to  the  oversight  of  the  relevant 
benchmarks is appropriate to their degree of use and complexity and to the risks they 
pose. Such natural persons may be staff of the administrator or other external natural 
persons contracted by the administrator to carry out the role of the oversight function. 
External  persons  may  be  most  appropriate  when  no  staff  of  the  administrator  are 
available to perform the function, however these persons must not have a vested interest 
in  the  level  of  the  benchmark.  Where  the  oversight  function  is  a  natural  person,  it  is 
exempt from certain procedures which are only appropriate for a committee. Due to the 
high degree of use of critical benchmarks and the risks they pose in certain instances, 
critical benchmarks cannot be overseen by a natural person.  

To fulfil the responsibilities of the oversight function, members may need to have expert 
knowledge of the benchmark provision process but also of the underlying market the 
benchmark  seeks  to  measure.  Such  expertise  may  be  sourced  from  users  and 
contributors  active  in  the  markets  or  from  providers  of  regulated  data.  An  oversight 
function  may  benefit  from  the  expertise  of  contributors  and  users  have  an  interest  in 
ensuring the benchmark is robust. It is therefore appropriate that they be considered as 
members for such benchmarks. 

Staff of the administrator that are directly involved in the provision of the benchmark 
may sit on the oversight function on condition they participate in a non-voting capacity 
as they can provide necessary insight into the work of the administrator. Their status as 
non-voting members is appropriate to ensure that the administrator does not hold undue 
influence  over  the  decisions  of  the  oversight  function  at  the  expense  of  supervised 
entities that use the benchmark, as well as other stakeholders.  

The oversight function is an essential tool for managing conflicts of interest at the level 
of  the  administrator  and  in  order  to  ensure  the  integrity  of  the  function,  persons 
convicted of financial services-related offences are prohibited from becoming members 
of an oversight function.  

Observers may also join the oversight function, for example if they have an interest in 
the  benchmark  if  it  is  widely  used  in  their  markets  or  if  they  can  provide  additional 
expertise.  Such  individuals  are  considered  observers  rather  than  members,  as  their 
presence  is  not  permanent  and  they  do  not  have  voting  rights.  Their  participation  is 

18 

 

 

 

(10) 

(11) 

(12) 

governed by the procedures of the oversight function as the final decision on whether or 
not an observer should be permitted to join lies with the oversight function in order to 
maintain the integrity of the oversight function. 

Independent  committees cannot be completely separated from the organisation of the 
administrator as the final decisions with regards to the business of the administrator lie 
with the management body and a separate committee could take decisions without fully 
appreciating the potentially detrimental impact of such decisions on the business of the 
administrator.  An  oversight  function  embedded  within  the  organisation  of  the 
administrator would be best placed to challenge the decisions of the administrator with 
respect to the benchmarks. 

In order for the oversight function to perform the role assigned by Regulation (EU) No 
2016/1011,  it  is  important  that  it  has  the  ability  to  fully  assess  and  challenge  the 
decisions  of  the  management  body  of  the  administrator  and  that,  in  case  of  a 
disagreement, the deliberations of the oversight function in this regard are recorded  

In case the oversight function is a committee, procedures covering dispute resolution, 
conflicts of interest management and criteria to select members and observers, amongst 
others, are necessary to ensure that the oversight function, once established, can operate 
without impediment.  There may however be other procedures  appropriate to  specific 
types of benchmarks or administrators which may not be envisaged in this Regulation 
but are necessary for the correct governance of their benchmarks and oversight functions 
are therefore free to introduce such additional procedures.  

(13)  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority (ESMA) to the Commission.  

(14)  ESMA  has  conducted  open  public  consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical 
standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is  based,  analysed  the  potential  related  costs  and 
benefits  and  requested  the  opinion  of  the  Securities  and  Markets  Stakeholder  Group 
established in accordance with Article 37 of Regulation (EU) No 1095/20109.  

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

Article 1 

Composition of the oversight function 

1.  The  structure  and  composition  of  the  oversight  function  shall  be  appropriate  to  the 
ownership  and  control  structure  of  the  administrator  and  shall  be  determined  by  the 
administrator  based  on  the  nature,  scale  and  complexity  of  the  provision  of  the 
benchmark  and,  where  appropriate,  in  accordance  with  one  or  more  of  the  non-
exhaustive list of governance arrangements in Annex 1. 

2.  Where the benchmark is a critical benchmark, the oversight function shall be carried out 
by a committee with at least two independent members. Independent members shall be 

                                                

9  
Regulation  (EU)  No  1095/2010  of  the European  Parliament  and  of the  Council  of  24  November  2010  establishing  a 
European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing 
Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

19 

 

 

 

natural persons sitting on the oversight function who are not directly affiliated with the 
administrator other than through their involvement in the oversight function, and do not 
have a vested interest in the level of the relevant benchmark. 

3.  An administrator shall not establish an oversight function in accordance with Number 3 
of  the  Annex  for  critical  benchmarks  or  for  regulated-data  benchmarks  that  are  used 
directly or indirectly within a combination of benchmarks as a reference for financial 
instruments  or  financial  contracts  or  for  measuring  the  performance  of  investment 
funds, having a total value greater than the value given in Article 17(2) of Regulation 
(EU) 1011/2016, on the basis of all the range of maturities or tenors of the benchmark.  

4.  The  oversight  function  shall  be  composed  of  members  that  together  have  the  skills, 
knowledge  and  expertise  appropriate  to  the  oversight  of  the  provision  of a  particular 
benchmark, the underlying market or economic reality the benchmark seeks to measure 
and to the responsibilities the oversight function is required to fulfil.  

5.  Where  a  benchmark  is  a  regulated-data  benchmark,  the  administrator  shall  consider 
including, as members of the oversight function, representatives from the entities listed 
in point (a) of Article 3(1)(24) of Regulation (EU) No 1011/2016 and, where applicable, 
from entities contributing net asset values of investment funds. 

6.  Where a benchmark is based on contributions, and representatives of contributors or of 
supervised  entities  that  use  the  benchmark,  and  other  relevant  stakeholders,  are 
members of the oversight  function, the  administrator shall ensure that  members with 
conflicts  of  interest  shall  not  hold  a  majority.  The  administrator  shall  also  give  due 
consideration  to  conflicts  arising  from  relationships  between  potential  members  and 
other external stakeholders with a vested interest in the level of the relevant benchmarks.  

7.  Where  staff  of  the  administrator  who  are  directly  involved  in  the  provision  of  the 
benchmarks are members of the oversight function, the administrator shall ensure that 
the members in question do not adversely affect the integrity of the oversight function. 
Representatives  of  the  management  body  may  be  invited  to  attend  meetings  by  the 
oversight function but shall not be permanent members of the oversight function. 

8.  Members  shall  not  include  persons  who  have  been  convicted  of  financial  services 
related offences, in particular manipulation or attempted manipulation under Regulation 
(EU) No 596/2014.  

9.  Observers  shall  be  permitted  to  join  the  oversight  function,  in  accordance  with  the 

procedures set out in Article 3(1)(b). 

Article 2 

Positioning of the oversight function 

1.  The  positioning  of  the  oversight  function  within  the  organisational  structure  of  the 
administrator shall be appropriate to provide effective scrutiny of the provision of the 
benchmark(s).  

2.  The  oversight  function  shall  be  embedded  within  the  organisational  structure  of  the 
administrator but separate from the management body and other governance functions 
of the benchmark administrator. 

20 

 

 

 

3.  The oversight function shall assess and challenge the decisions of the management body 
of  the  administrator  with  regards  to  benchmarks  provision  in  order  to  fulfil  the 
requirements  of  Regulation  (EU)  No  2016/1011.  The  oversight  function  shall  act 
independently of the administrator where required by Article 5(3)(i) of Regulation (EU) 
1011/2016  shall  report  all  other  recommendations  on  benchmarks  oversight  to  the 
management body.  

4.  Where the oversight function becomes aware that the management body acted or intends 
to act contrary to recommendations resulting from a decision of the oversight function, 
it shall record this clearly in the minutes of any meeting, or in records of decisions for 
oversight functions established in accordance with Number 3 of the Annex.  

 

Article 3 

Procedures governing the oversight function 

1.  An oversight function shall have procedures relating to the following areas: 

(a) 

(b) 

terms  of  reference  for  the  oversight  function,  including  the  frequency  of 
meetings,  which  shall  occur  regularly,  and  the  recording  and  publication  of 
minutes of the meetings or decisions of the oversight function; 

criteria  to  select  members  of  the  oversight  function,  including  evaluation  of 
members’  expertise  and  skills  and  the  time  commitments  required,  and  to 
identify appropriate observers that may be permitted to join some meetings of 
the oversight function; 

(c)  Disclosure to users and potential users of a benchmark, to the relevant competent 
authority  and,  where  relevant,  to  contributors,  of  procedures  regarding  the 
management of conflicts of interest in accordance with Article 4; 

(d) 

Processes for election, nomination or removal and replacement of members of 
the oversight function; 

(e)  Rules  for  the  participation  of  the  staff  of  the  administrator  sitting  on  the 
oversight function, who are directly involved in the provision of the benchmarks 
to be overseen; 

(f)  Criteria for determining which responsibilities may be delegated in accordance 

with Number 5 of the Annex; 

(g)  Criteria  for  choosing  the  person  or  committee  within  the  oversight  function 
acting as the contact point for the management body of the administrator and the 
competent authority, in accordance with Numbers 4 and 5 of the Annex; 

(h)  A mechanism for managing disputes within the oversight function; 

(i) 

(j) 

Processes governing the measures to be taken in respect of breaches of the code 
of conduct, where appropriate; 

Procedures  for  notifying 
the  competent  authority  regarding  suspected 
misconduct  by  contributors  or  the  administrator  and  any  anomalous  or 
suspicious input data;  

21 

 

 

 

(k) 

Frequency of, and approach to, interaction with other administrator’s functions 
and in particular with the management body; 

(l)  Arrangements  to  prevent  improper  disclosure  of  confidential  or  sensitive 

information received, produced or discussed by the oversight function. 

2.  Where  the  oversight  function  is  carried  out  by  a  natural  person,  subparagraph  (e)  of 

paragraph 1 do not apply. 

 

Article 4  

Conflicts of interest management procedures  

1.  Conflicts  of interest  which  may arise within the oversight  function due to  competing 
interests  of  members  shall  be  managed  using,  where  appropriate,  the  following  non-
exhaustive list of procedures: 

(a)  Require members to disclose conflicts ahead of the discussion of each agenda 

item during meetings of the oversight function; 

(b)  Prohibit staff directly involved in the provision of the benchmark from voting 

on decisions of the oversight function; 

(c)  Remove  voting  rights  from  members  for  decisions  that  would  have  a  direct 

business impact on the organisations they represent; 

(d)  Exclude members from specific discussions which would cause them to become 
conflicted,  record  the  exclusion  in  the  minutes  of  any  relevant  meeting  and 
redact such minutes if they are published in accordance with Article 3(1)(a);  

(e)  Restrict membership of the oversight function to persons not already sitting on 

the oversight function of another administrator. 

2.  Where it is not possible to manage the conflicts of interest through the procedures in 
paragraph 1  or  by  other  means,  the  administrator  shall  revise  the  structure  of  the 
oversight function and where appropriate, replace the conflicted members. 

3.  Where the oversight function is carried out by a natural person, subparagraphs (b) to (d) 
of paragraph 1 do not apply. The natural person carrying out the oversight function shall 
not be directly involved in the provision of the benchmark. Where the natural person 
carrying out  the oversight  function represents  another organisation,  it shall not  make 
decisions that would have a direct business impact on such organisation. 

 

Article 5 

Entry into force 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

22 

 

 

 

It shall apply from 1 January 2018.  

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels, […] 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

For the Commission 
The President 
 
 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

 

23 

 

 

 

Annex 

Non-exhaustive list of governance arrangements 

1.  An  independent  oversight  committee  consisting  of  a  balanced  representation  of 
stakeholders including supervised entities that use the benchmark, contributors and other 
external stakeholders such as market infrastructure operators and other input data sources, 
as well as independent members and staff of the administrator that are not directly involved 
in the provision of the relevant benchmarks or any related activities; 

2.  A committee, where the administrator is not wholly owned or controlled by contributors to 
the benchmark or supervised entities that use it and no other conflicts of interest exist at the 
level of the oversight function. The committee shall include: 

i.  persons involved in the provision of the relevant benchmarks in a non-voting 

capacity; 

ii.  at least two members of staff representing other parts of the organisation of 
the  administrator  that  are  not  directly  involved  in  the  provision  of  the 
relevant benchmarks or any related activities; and 

iii.  where appropriate staff members in accordance with subparagraph 2(ii) are 

not available, at least two independent members; 

3.  A natural  person  who is  a staff member of the administrator or any other natural  person 
whose  services  are  placed  at  the  administrator's  disposal  or  under  the  control  of  the 
administrator, who is not directly involved in the provision of any relevant benchmark and 
has no vested interest in the level of the benchmark; 

4.  An oversight function consisting of multiple committees, each responsible for the oversight 
of a benchmark, type of benchmarks or family of benchmarks, provided that a single person 
or committee is designated as responsible for the overall direction and coordination of the 
oversight  function  and  for  interaction  with  the  management  body  of  the  benchmark 
administrator and the competent authority;  

5.  An oversight function consisting of multiple committees, each performing a subset of the 
oversight responsibilities and tasks, provided that a single person or committee is designated 
as responsible for the overall direction and coordination of the oversight function and for 
interaction with the management body of the benchmark administrator and the competent 
authority. 

 

 

 

24 

 

 

 

3  