4.7  Draft technical standards: Transparency of methodology 

 

COMMISSION DELEGATED REGULATION (EU) No …/.. 

of XXX 

[…] 

supplementing Regulation (EU) No 2016/1011 of the European Parliament 

and of the Council with regard to regulatory technical standards for 

information to be provided on key elements of methodology, internal review 

of methodology and the procedure to consult on material changes of 

methodology. 

 

THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION, 

Having regard to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union,  

Having regard to Regulation (EU) No 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council 
of 08 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts 
or to measure the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 
2014/17/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/201414, and in particular Article 13(3) thereof, 

Whereas: 

(1) 

(2) 

Disclosure of key elements of the methodology serves the purpose of allowing users and 
potential  users  to  understand  how  a  benchmark  is  derived,  what  it  measures  and 
therefore to understand the appropriateness of the benchmark for their purposes and any 
limitations or risks of the methodology.  

Benchmarks’ methodologies are highly divergent. Any minimum list of key elements 
should therefore allow for its application only in so far as it is relevant to a particular 
benchmark  methodology.  For  example,  information  on  minimum  liquidity  that  is 
specified for benchmark constituents may be relevant for equity benchmarks but not for 
commodity benchmarks.  

(3) 

For the purposes of ensuring the benchmark’s reliability and accuracy, one of the key 
elements to be disclosed by the administrator is the definition of a minimum quantity 

                                                

14 OJ L 171, 29.6.2016, p. 1. 

49 

 

 

 

(4) 

(5) 

(6) 

and/or  quality  of  input  data  in  order  to  be  able  to  apply  the  methodology  of  the 
benchmark and perform its calculation. In addition, when these standards of quantity or 
quality of input data are not met the methodology should describe the methodology of 
calculation in such exceptional circumstances. 

The use of discretion in the determination of benchmarks increases their vulnerability 
to manipulation. In order to minimise this risk of manipulation, clear rules in relation to 
the circumstances when discretion can be used and how this discretion may be exercised 
should be disclosed by the administrator as part of the key elements of the methodology. 

As markets change over time, an administrator may consider that a benchmark does no 
longer  represent  the  market  it  intends  to  measure,  and  may  decide  to  review  its 
methodology to remedy this deficiency. It is important that users and potential users are 
sufficiently  informed  of  this  process,  including  its  frequency,  procedure,  the  bodies 
involved and the relevant governance process in which it is embedded. 

Regulation  (EU)  2016/1011  requires 
information  regarding  key  elements  of 
methodology and internal review of methodology be publicly accessible for critical and 
significant  benchmarks.  In  accordance  with  the  principle  of  proportionality,  this 
Regulation  avoids  putting  an  excessive  burden  on  administrators  of  significant 
benchmarks, by allowing them to choose to reduce disclosure to a more limited set of 
elements or to disclose certain elements at a reduced level of detail. 

(7)  Whenever a benchmark administrator judges a change in methodology to be material in 
nature, an adequate consultation procedure should be followed. This procedure should 
communicate  a  level  of  information  regarding  the  change  that  enables  users  and 
potential users to assess the expected impact of a proposed material change and provide 
them with a mechanism to give feedback on this change to the administrator. 

(8) 

(9) 

In  order  to  safeguard  a  user’s  or  potential  user’s  capacity  of  understanding  how  a 
benchmark  is  derived,  what  it  measures  and  therefore  of  understanding  the 
appropriateness of the benchmark for their purposes and any limitations or risks of the 
methodology, the rationale behind each proposed material change shall be disclosed. 

The  transparency  of  the  consultation  procedure  may  be  ensured  by  publishing  the 
comments  received  as  well  as  the  administrator’s  response  to  those  comments.  For 
critical  benchmarks,  both  comments  received  and  administrators’  responses  thereto 
should  be  accessible  in  full.  For  significant  benchmarks,  accessibility  of  the 
admnistrator’s responses to comments may be achieved by way of publishing a feedback 
statement. Respondents may, however, request confidentiality of their response, which 
shall be respected by the administrator. 

(10)  This Regulation is based on the draft regulatory technical standards submitted by the 

European Securities and Markets Authority to the Commission.  

(11)  The  European  Securities  and  Markets  Authority  has  conducted  open  public 
consultations  on  the  draft  regulatory  technical  standards  on  which  this  Regulation  is 
based, analysed the potential related costs and benefits and requested the opinion of the 

50 

 

 

 

Securities  Markets  Stakeholder  Group  established  in  accordance  with  Article  37  of 
Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council15.  

 

HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: 

Article 1 

Key elements of the methodology to be disclosed 

1. The administrator shall disclose at least the following key elements of the methodology, as 
applicable to the relevant benchmark and input data used: 

1)  definition of the benchmark and of the market or economic reality it intends to represent; 

2)  estimate of the size of the underlying market; 

3)  unit of measurement of the benchmark; 

4)  criteria for selecting input data; 

5)  type(s) of input data used and the priority given to different types of input data; 

6)  minimum required quantity and/or quality of input data; 

7)  minimum liquidity requirements for the constituents of the benchmark; 

8)  rules identifying how and when discretion may be exercised in the determination of the 

benchmark; 

9)  a description of the constituents of a benchmark and the criteria used for selecting the 

constituents and for assigning weights to these; 

10) whether 

the  benchmark’s  methodology  requires  periodic  changes 

to  remain 

representative and, in such case: 

a)  criteria for and / or frequency of changes; 

b)  the interval and / or triggers for rebalancing the components of the benchmark. 

11) if the benchmark takes into account the reinvestment of the dividends and coupons paid 

by the constituents; 

12) panel composition and eligibility criteria for panel membership; 

13) limitations of the methodology, including - but not limited to - in illiquid markets; 

14) the means for tracing and verifying the methodology of calculation of the benchmark 
including – but not limited to – the use of a secured algorithm in order to perform the 
calculation; 

15) error management procedures; contingency measures during conditions of market stress 

or when thresholds for minimum quantity and quality of input data are not met;  

                                                

15 Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European 
Supervisory  Authority  (European  Securities  and  Markets  Authority),  amending  Decision  No  716/2009/EC  and  repealing 
Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OJ L 331, 15.12.2010, p. 84). 

51 

 

 

 

16) triggers for the application of the procedures and measures under points (14) and (15); 

17) clearly defined roles of third parties in data collection, computation or dissemination; 

18) method used for the extrapolation and interpolation of data.  

2. Administrators of significant benchmarks may opt not to disclose elements 16 to 18 of the 
list in Article 1, paragraph 1.  

Article 2 

Elements of the internal review of methodology to be disclosed 

1.  The  administrator  shall  publish  the  following  elements  of  information  regarding  the 
procedure for internal review of methodology: 

(i) 

a  detailed  description  of  the  procedure  for  internal  review  and  approval  of  the 
methodology, including: 

a.  the frequency of internal review, including any specific events that may give 

rise to internal review; 

b.  the  bodies  or  functions  within  the  administrator’s  organisational  structure 

involved in reviewing and approving methodology; 

c.  the roles performed by the persons involved in reviewing and approving the 

methodology; 

d.  a  general  description  of  the  procedure  for  nomination  and  removal  of  the 

persons involved in reviewing and approving methodology. 

(ii) 

(iii) 

a definition of what constitutes a material change, in connection with the particular 
benchmark,  the  underlying  market  or  economic  reality  and  the  methodology  of 
calculation; 

a description of the procedure for consulting on any proposed material change in the 
administrator’s methodology;  

2. Administrators of significant benchmarks may opt not to disclose sub-elements c and d of 
element i of paragraph 1. 

Article 3 

Procedure for consultation on material changes to the methodology 

1.  When consulting on a material change in the benchmark’s methodology, an administrator 

shall: 

a.  ensure that stakeholders are at a minimum informed of the key elements of 

the proposed future methodology; 

b.  inform stakeholders of the reasoning behind the qualification of a proposed 
change to the methodology as a material change, explaining notably what its 
expected  impact  is  on  the  benchmark  determination,  to  the  extent  such 
impact can be estimated; 

52 

 

 

 

c.  publish or make available the rationale behind a proposed material change 
in  such  detail  that  stakeholders  are  able  to  assess  what  the  effects  of  the 
proposed  material  change  are  on  a  benchmark’s  representativeness, 
relevance and appropriateness for its intended use. 

 

Article 4 

Publication of comments 

1.  The administrator shall make accessible in full the comments received in consulting on a 
proposed material change as well as the administrator’s response to those comments except 
where confidentiality has been requested by the originator of the comments. 

2.  Administrators of significant benchmarks may elect to make accessible their responses to 

the comments received by publishing a feedback statement, which shall include: 

a.  the  feedback  of  the  administrator  on  the  responses  received  in  relation  to  the 

proposed changes; 

b.  the list of the respondents to the consultation, except where confidentiality has been 

requested by the originator of the comments;  

c.  the outcome of the consultation. 

Article 5 

Entry into force 

This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in 
the Official Journal of the European Union. 

It shall apply from 1 January 2018 

This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. 

Done at Brussels, […] 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 

For the Commission 
The President 
 
 
On behalf of the President 
 
[Position] 

 
 

 

53 

 

 

 

5  Code of conduct for contributors (Article 15 BMR) 

